# SCZ-Diagnosis-using-fMRI
Schizophrenia is a complex mental health disorder where an individual experiences a disconnect from reality that presents itself in the form of hallucinations, delusions, disorganized thinking, impaired social and emotional functioning. Schizophrenia poses diagnostic challenges as current diagnostic methods rely on clinical interviews behavioral assessments. The early diagnosis of schizophrenia poses a persistent challenge in mental health care as the primary and relevant symptoms of it become evident only during the first psychotic episode.

Resting-state fMRI [1] has been on the rise as a viable, non-invasive tool for identifying intrinsic brain connectivity patterns to provide a window into the neural underpinnings of various psychiatric disorders like schizophrenia. This neuroimaging method is capable of capturing spontaneous fluctuations in the blood oxygen level-dependent signals (BOLD signals) that reveal functional connectivity patterns across different regions in the brain even when an explicit task is not being performed.

The fMRI image is represented as a 4-dimensional array with three dimensions for the structure of the brain and time as a 4th dimension. From this 4D array, using masker.fit_transform, a time series is generated for each ROI in a fMRI. From this time series, using correlation_measure.fit_transform, a connectivity matrix is generated. This above process helps in the dimensionality reduction of the data for efficient computing while maintaining the complex relationships and biological relevance.
The composite phenotypic file from COBRE provides other aspects of a patient that include age and gender along with information on whether the subject is healthy or schizophrenic. Combining this along with the connectivity matrix provides the dataset. This dataset is split into two sets: training and testing set in 85:15 ratio. 
